https://www.grammarly.com/blog/rhetorical-devices/logical-fallacies/

15 Common Types of Logical Fallacies

As you’ll see below, there are a lot of ways an argument can be flawed. Take a look at fifteen of the most commonly used logical fallacies.

Ad hominem
An ad hominem fallacy attempts to invalidate an opponent’s position based on a personal trait or fact about the opponent rather than through logic.
Example: Katherine is a bad choice for mayor because she didn’t grow up in this town.

Red herring
A red herring shifts focus from the debate at hand by introducing an irrelevant point.
Example: Losing a tooth can be scary, but have you heard about the Tooth Fairy?

Straw man
A straw man argument argues against a hyperbolic, inaccurate version of the opposition rather than their actual argument.
Example: Erin thinks we need to stop using all plastics, right now, to save the planet from climate change.

Equivocation
An equivocation is a statement crafted to mislead or confuse readers or listeners by using multiple meanings or interpretations of a word or through unclear phrasing.
Example: While I have a clear plan for the campus budget that accounts for every dollar spent, my opponent simply wants to throw money at special interest projects.

Slippery slope
A slippery slope fallacy claims a series of events will follow from one starting point, typically with no supporting evidence for the chain of events.
Example: If we make an exception for Bijal’s service dog, then other people will want to bring their dogs. Then everybody will bring their dogs, and before you know it, our restaurant will be overrun with dogs, their slobber, their hair, and all the noise they make, and nobody will want to eat here anymore.

Hasty generalization
A hasty generalization is a statement made after considering just one or a few examples, instead of relying on more extensive research to back up the claim.
Example: I felt nauseated both times I ate pizza from Georgio’s, so I must be allergic to something in pizza.

Appeal to authority
In an appeal to authority, the arguer claims an authority figure’s expertise to support a claim, despite this expertise being irrelevant or overstated.
Example: If you want to be healthy, you need to stop drinking coffee. I read it on a fitness blog.

False dilemma
A false dilemma, or false dichotomy, claims there are only two options in a situation, often extreme opposites, failing to acknowledge other, more reasonable options.
Example: If you don’t support my decision, you were never really my friend.

Bandwagon fallacy
The bandwagon fallacy claims a certain action is the right thing to do because it’s popular.
Example: Of course it’s fine to wait until the last minute to write your paper. Everybody does it!

Appeal to ignorance
An appeal to ignorance claims something must be true because it hasn’t been proven false, or that something must be false because it hasn’t been proven true. This is also known as the burden of proof fallacy.
Example: There must be fairies living in our attic because nobody’s ever proven that there aren’t fairies living in our attic.

Circular argument
A circular argument uses the same statement as both the premise and the conclusion. No new information or justification is introduced.
Example: Peppers are the easiest vegetable to grow because I think peppers are the easiest vegetable to grow.

Sunk cost fallacy
The sunk cost fallacy justifies continuing a specific course of action based on the amount of time or money already spent on it.
Example: I’m not enjoying this book, but I bought it, so I have to finish reading it.

Appeal to pity
An appeal to pity attempts to sway a reader’s or listener’s opinion by provoking them emotionally.
Example: I know I should have been on time for the interview, but I woke up late and felt really bad about it, then the stress of being late made it hard to concentrate on driving here.

Causal fallacy
A causal fallacy implies a relationship between two things where one can’t be proven.
Example: When ice cream sales are up, so are shark attacks. Therefore, buying ice cream increases your risk of being bitten by a shark.

Appeal to hypocrisy
An appeal to hypocrisy (tu quoque fallacy) is a rebuttal that responds to one claim with reactive criticism rather than addressing the claim itself.
Example: “You don’t have enough experience to be the new leader.” “Neither do you!”
